here we are at the Robert and Karen
Holland family print galleries in
founders Hall at the University of San
Diego and we're excited to present this
semester an exhibition from our
permanent collection of george boolos
series titled Miserere that we are
exhibiting together with invited student
contributions that will be exhibited and
I'd like to show you today our behind
the scenes look at the exhibition that
we're opening on August 25th which is
titled George rose Miserere and the art
of response so we're in one of the two
galleries dedicated to this exhibition
and what you see around me are a
selection of the prints from the second
half of the series the artist Jorge Luo
a French artist who worked at the
beginnings of the 20th century
originally intended to design a series
of 100 prints one the first half under
the title Miserere and the second under
the title guerre and we're looking at
prints from that second series and the
artist didn't have the opportunity to
finish all 100 and the final series has
58 total prints broooo
included scenes from the life and
passion of christ and he intermingled
with those fiends subjects from daily
life and exploration of members of
society who are more marginalized the
poor the ethnically diverse and he used
that intermingling of subjects to
explore how spirituality in the early
20th century could be interwoven with
modern civilization and society we're in
the series that refers to war
ruh-oh really lived through the horrors
of World War one and it's aftermath and
he's exploring not only the ethnic
diversity that he would have seen he
grew up in what is present-day Chinatown
in Paris Belleville in this particular
example we also see a real interest in
detail ornament there's the painting
within the print composition this
marvelous architectural detail and arch
print is really thoroughly saturated
with ink pretty much throughout the
composition combined with a real
interest in detail so specific
ornamental details that he elaborated by
introducing variation in texture and
texture is something that's very
difficult to describe in the printmaking
medium so this is one of the kind of
virtuoso touches that we can observe we
are exhibiting together with invited
student contributions that will be
exhibited so the students works are
created in response to the ruo prints
which are etching with also engraving
and aquatint very elaborate technical
process that the artists use to create
these 58 large format prints many of
which will be exhibited in the
exhibition
you